#summary Frequently Asked Questions

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= How to add new Wiki pages or update Wiki pages? =
Feel free to clone https://code.google.com/p/tortoisegit.wiki/ or https://github.com/TortoiseGit/wiki and send a pull request. Also everyone who is on our mailing list (http://groups.google.com/group/tortoisegit-dev) can edit the wiki using the web editor. 

= How to delete branch and tag =
Press "Shift" key, right-click -> Browse Reference, 
Choose branch or tag, right-click, choose "delete".. 

Or open log dialog -> choose commit with branch\tag, right->click->delete

= What to do if a crash happened? =
 * Check if "git gc" resolves the problem
 * Check if "git fsck" resovles the problem
 * Test our [http://code.google.com/p/tortoisegit/downloads/list?q=label:Preview&sort=-uploaded preview release] if the problem is still there. If yes: File a [http://code.google.com/p/tortoisegit/issues/list bugreport]. Mention your Windows Version (also x64 or x86), your msysgit version and the used TortoiseGit version there.

= How to delete a remote tag =
Open the push dialog, select the remote archive, no local branch, fill in the tag name into the remote branch field and click on OK.

= How to remove file from version control and keep local copy =
Press "shift" key, right-click -> Delete (keep local)

= How to use PuTTY for git cli and git bash? =
Create an environment variable called "GIT_SSH" with the path to the PuTTY plink.exe.
This can be done on the command line by executing "set GIT_SSH=PATH_TO_PLINK.EXE" ("C:\Program Files\TortoiseGit\bin\TortoisePLink.exe" on default installations) or [http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm permanently].

= How to show extended menu item =
Press "shift" key, right-click

= How to hide some menu items =
setting -> Set Extend Menu Item. 
Choose menu you want to hide

= How to use 32bit extension at 64bit system =
Since version 1.7.2 the 32-bit extension is also included in the 64-bit installer.

= TortoiseGitBlame shows menu in wrong language =
You have to reset the menu bar (even if you did not make any changes to it). Left click -> Customize -> Menu tab and hit Reset/Restore.