#summary System prerequisites, Installation and upgrade howto
#labels Featured

= System prerequisites =

 * For the latest version of !TortoiseGit Windows XP SP3 or newer is required.
 * For Windows 7, SP1 is required; For Windows Vista, SP2 is required
 * Admin privileges for the installation
 * [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=8483 Windows Installer 4.5] (required since !TortoiseGit 1.7.15.2)
 * [http://code.google.com/p/msysgit Git for Windows] is required by !TortoiseGit (sometimes also mentioned as msysGit)
   * You do not need to download the whole msysGit development package, the [http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/downloads/list?can=2&q="Full+installer+for+official+Git+for+Windows" "Full installer for official Git for Windows"] download package is sufficient
   * Installation of Git for Windows can be done with preselected options, however, no need to install the "Windows explorer integration". If you know about CRLF and LF line endings and you have editors coping with that, you should select "Checkout as-is, commit as-is" in order to prevent automatic translations
   * Git for Windows/msysGit 1.7.10+ is recommended for !TortoiseGit 1.7.9+ (Git for Windows/msysGit 1.7.10 adds utf-8 support and is compatible to `*`nix git)
   * minimum compatible version is 1.6.1 (for !TortoiseGit < 1.7.9 you should use Git for Windows/msysGit 1.7.6)

= Installation =

Just [Download download] the setup package for your system and install it. If you are running a 64 bit system, you do not need to download and install the 32 bit version: The 32 bit shell extension is included in the 64 bit installer since !TortoiseGit 1.7.3.0.

== Windows 2000 ==

If you want to use !TortoiseGit in a Win2K environment (only 1.6.5 and below support Win2K), please install [http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=18909 GDI+] before you install !TortoiseGit. However, running these old versions is not recommended (no utf-8 and separate-git-dir support).

= Upgrade =

Before upgrading you should read the ReleaseNotes.

Just [Download download] the setup package for your system and install it. The old version will be replaced automatically.

If you are upgrading from 1.7.3.0 or older and you have installed the 32-bit version on a 64-bit system you have to uninstall the 32-bit version first.

= Common problems (installer aborts with an error message) =
== "This installation package is not supported by this processor type. Contact your product vendor." ==
This means you are trying to install the 64-bit version of !TortoiseGit on a normal 32-bit operating system. You need to download and use the correct msi file for your OS. For normal 32-bit OS, make sure the msi filename does not have "64-bit" in it. 

== "There is a problem with this Windows Installer package. A DLL required for this install to complete could not be run. Contact your support personnel or package vendor." ==
There seems to be a problem with the "Microsoft Visual C++ 2012 Redistributable". Try to repair it (or download and install it). See issue #2061.

== "Please wait while the installer finishes determining your disk space requirements." ==
Cleanup/empty the temp-directory (e.g. C:\Users\<your user>\!AppData\Local\Temp, C:\User and Settings\<your user>\Local Settings\Temp, c:\Windows\Temp\).